+++
# Pub_type key
# 0 -> 'Forthcoming',
# 1 -> 'Preprint',
# 2 -> 'Journal',
# 3 -> 'Conference Proceedings',
# 4 -> 'Book chapter',
# 5 -> 'Thesis'

title = "Director's cut: a combined dataset for visual attention analysis in cinematic VR content"
date = "2018-11-13"
authors = ["Sebastian Knorr","Cagri Ozcinar","Colm O Fearghail","Aljosa Smolic"] 
#authors = ["M. D. Alicke","D. R Mandel","D. Hilton","[T. Gerstenberg](https://tobiasgerstenberg.github.io/)","D. A. Lagnado"]
publication_types = ["3"]
publication = "In *15th ACM SIGGRAPH European Conference on Visual Media Production 2018*"
image_preview = ""
selected = true
projects = []
math = true
highlight = true
abstract= "Methods of storytelling in cinema have well established conventions that have been built over the course of its history and the development of the format. In 360째 film many of the techniques that have formed part of this cinematic language or visual narrative are not easily applied or are not applicable due to the nature of the format i.e. not contained the border of the screen. In this paper, we analyze how end-users view 360째 video in the presence of directional cues and evaluate if they are able to follow the actual story of narrative 360째 films. We first let filmmakers create an intended scan-path, the so called director's cut, by setting position markers in the equirectangular representation of the omnidirectional content for eight short 360째 films. Alongside this the filmmakers provided additional information regarding directional cues and plot points. Then, we performed a subjective test with 20 participants watching the films with a head-mounted display and recorded the center position of the viewports. The resulting scan-paths of the participants are then compared against the director's cut using different scan-path similarity measures. In order to better visualize the similarity between the scan-paths, we introduce a new metric which measures and visualizes the viewport overlap between the participants' scan-paths and the director's cut. Finally, the entire dataset, i.e. the director's cuts including the directional cues and plot points as well as the scan-paths of the test subjects, is publicly available with this paper."

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://www.scss.tcd.ie/~ozcinarc/pdf/CVMP2018_DirectorsCut_public-1.pdf"
url_preprint = "https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3278472"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = "https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1QhUGA07pAxW2CCOmj8GHMEoIErPocbXk"
url_project = "https://v-sense.scss.tcd.ie/research/3dof/directors-cut-research/"
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
#[[url_custom]]
#name = "View Proceeding Article"
#url = "https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8743345"

[header]
#image = "publications/alicke2015conceptions.png"
caption = ""
+++


