+++
# Pub_type key
# 0 -> 'Forthcoming',
# 1 -> 'Preprint',
# 2 -> 'Journal',
# 3 -> 'Conference Proceedings',
# 4 -> 'Book chapter',
# 5 -> 'Thesis'

title = "On the effect of age perception biases for real age regression"
date = "2019-01-11"
authors = ["Julio C. S. Jacques Junior", "Cagri Ozcinar","Marina Marjanovic","Xavier Baro","Gholamreza Anbarjafari","Sergio Escalera"]
#authors = ["M. D. Alicke","D. R Mandel","D. Hilton","[T. Gerstenberg](https://tobiasgerstenberg.github.io/)","D. A. Lagnado"]
publication_types = ["3"]
publication = "In *2019 14th IEEE International Conference on Automatic Face & Gesture Recognition (FG 2019)*"
image_preview = ""
selected = true
projects = []
math = true
highlight = true
abstract= "Automatic age estimation from facial images represents an important task in computer vision. This paper analyses the effect of gender, age, ethnic, makeup and expression attributes of faces as sources of bias to improve deep apparent age prediction. Following recent works where it is shown that apparent age labels benefit real age estimation, rather than direct real to real age regression, our main contribution is the integration, in an end-to-end architecture, of face attributes for apparent age prediction with an additional loss for real age regression. Experimental results on the APPA-REAL dataset indicate the proposed network successfully take advantage of the adopted attributes to improve both apparent and real age estimation. Our model outperformed a state-of-the-art architecture proposed to separately address apparent and real age regression. Finally, we present preliminary results and discussion of a proof of concept application using the proposed model to regress the apparent age of an individual based on the gender of an external observer."

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://www.scss.tcd.ie/~ozcinarc/pdf/fg2018.pdf"
url_preprint = "https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8756595"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
#[[url_custom]]
#name = "View Proceeding Article"
#url = "https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8743345"

[header]
#image = "publications/alicke2015conceptions.png"
caption = ""
+++


