+++
# Pub_type key
# 0 -> 'Forthcoming',
# 1 -> 'Preprint',
# 2 -> 'Journal',
# 3 -> 'Conference Proceedings',
# 4 -> 'Book chapter',
# 5 -> 'Thesis'

title = "Super-resolution of Omnidirectional Images Using Adversarial Learning "
date = "2019-09-22"
authors = ["Cagri Ozcinar", "Aakanksha Rana", "Aljosa Smolic"]
#authors = ["M. D. Alicke","D. R Mandel","D. Hilton","[T. Gerstenberg](https://tobiasgerstenberg.github.io/)","D. A. Lagnado"]
publication_types = ["3"]
publication = "In *IEEE 21st International Workshop on Multimedia Signal Processing (MMSP 2019)*"
image_preview = ""
selected = true
projects = []
math = true
highlight = true
abstract= "An omnidirectional image (ODI) enables viewers to look in every direction from a fixed point through a headmounted 
display providing an immersive experience compared to that of a standard image. Designing immersive virtual reality 
systems with ODIs is challenging as they require high resolution content. In this paper, we study super-resolution for ODIs and
propose an improved generative adversarial network based model which is optimized to handle the artifacts obtained in the
spherical observational space. Specifically, we propose to use a fast PatchGAN discriminator, as it needs fewer parameters and
improves the super-resolution at a fine scale. We also explore the generative models with adversarial learning by introducing
a spherical-content specific loss function, called 360-SS. To train and test the performance of our proposed model we prepare a
dataset of 4500 ODIs. Our results demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed method and identify new challenges in ODI superresolution
for future investigations."

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/LF_streaming.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = "https://github.com/V-Sense/360SR"
url_dataset = ""
url_project = "https://v-sense.scss.tcd.ie/research/super-resolution-of-omnidirectional-images-using-adversarial-learning/"
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = "pdf/mmsp2019_poster.pdf"
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
[[url_custom]]
name = "View Proceeding Article"
url = "https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.04297"

[header]
#image = "publications/alicke2015conceptions.png"
caption = ""
+++


